
```c
if (n > 0)
for (i = 0; i < n; i++)
	if (s[i] > 0) {
		printf("...");
		return i;
	}
else // associated with `if` inside the for loop, not the outer if
	/* WRONG */
	printf("error -- n is negative\n");
```

- This kind of bug can be hard to find; it's a good idea to use braces when there are nested ifs.

# Loops

The for statement

```
for (expr1; expr2; expr3)
	statement
```

is equivalent to

```
expr1;
while (expr2) {
	statement
	expr3;
}
```

*except for the behaviour of continue*, which is described in Section 3.7.

## while vs for loop

Ex:

```c
while ((c = getchar()) == ' ' || c == '\n' || c = '\t')
	; /* skip white space characters */
```

Here, there is no initialization or re-initialization, so the `while` is most natural.

# Comma Operator

A pair of expressions separated by a comma is evaluated *left to right*, and the type and value of
the result are the type and *value of the right operand*.

Note: The commas that separate function arguments, variables in declarations, etc., are not comma operators, and do not guarantee left to right evaluation.
# break and continue statement

`break` statement can be used inside both loops and switches. break is executed for the innermost enclosing loop / switch in which the break is called.

`continue` statement is only used in loops and not switches. if used inside a switch which is inside a loop, the `continue` is called on the loop.
- continue immediately causes the next iteration of the innermost enclosing `for`, `while` or `do while` loop to begin i.e it skips the statements the loop after the `continue` statement.
- In case of a `while` or `do while` loop control is passed to the test condition, while in the case of `for` loop, control is passed to the increment step (`expr3` of for loop )
- The continue statement is often used when the part of the loop that follows is *complicated*, so that reversing a test and indenting another level would nest the program too deeply.

# goto statements - yes we are doing this

They may be used to abandon processing in some deeply nested structed, such as breaking out of two or more loops at once.

```c
for ( ... )
	for ( ... ) {
	...
		if (disaster)
		goto error;
	}
	// ...

error:
/* clean up the mess */
```

- The scope of a label is the entire function.
 
`goto` statements:
- hard to understand the code
- hard to maintain the code

Usually an extra variable or repeated test can be used in place of a `goto` statement

Hence, they should be rarely used, if it all.