
The UNIX operating system provides its services through a set of **system calls**, which are in effect functions within the operating system that may be called by user programs.
# File Descriptors

**In the UNIX operating system, all input and output is done by reading or writing files**, because all peripheral devices, even keyboard and screen, are files in the file system.

Whenever is to be written to system checks if the program is allowed to (whether the file exists, does the program have permissions to access it etc.). If all is well it returns to the program a **small non-negative integer** called a **file descriptor**.
- Whenever input or output is to be done on the file, the file descriptor is used instead of the name to identify the file.
- (A file descriptor is analogous to the file pointer used by the standard library, or to the file handle of MS-DOS.)
- All information about an open file is maintained by the system; the user program refers to the file only by the file descriptor.
## Standard Buffers

File descriptors **0**, **1**, and **2**, called the standard input, the standard output, and the standard error.

When input and output redirection is done, the shell *changes the default assignments for the file descriptors 0 and 1 to the named files*.
- Normally file descriptor 2 remains attached to the screen, so error messages can go there.
- In all cases, **the file assignments are changed by the shell, not by the program**.

```bash
prog <infile >outfile # redirection
some_prog1 | prog | some_prog2 # piping
```

# Low Level I/O - Read and Write

Input and output uses the `read` and `write` system calls, which are accessed from C programs through two functions called `read` and `write`.

- The first argument is a file descriptor.
- The second argument is a character array in your program where the data is to go to or to come from. 
- The third argument is the number is the number of bytes to be transferred.

```c
int n_read = read(int fd, char *buf, int n);
int n_written = write(int fd, char *buf, int n);
```

Each call returns a count of the number of bytes transferred.
- On reading, the number of bytes returned may be less than the number requested.
- A return value of zero bytes implies end of file, and -1 indicates an error of some sort.

- For writing, the return value is the number of bytes written; an error has occurred if this isn't equal to the number requested.

Bytes to be read or written may correspond to physical block size on a peripheral device.
- Larger sizes will be more efficient because fewer system calls will be made.
# Open, Creat, Close, Unlink


```c
int open(char *name, int flags, int perms); // return fd, else returns -1 if any error occurs

int fd = fd = open(name, flags, perms);
```

```
flags:

	O_RDONLY open for reading only
	O_WRONLY open for writing only
	O_RDWR open for both reading and writing
```

- It is an error to try to open a file that does not exist.
- The system call `creat` is provided to create new files, or to re-write old ones.
 - If the file already exists, `creat` will truncate it to zero length, thereby discarding its previous contents; it is not an error to `creat` a file that already exists.

```c
int creat(char *name, int perms); // returns a file descriptor if it was able to create the file, and -1 if not

fd = creat(name, perms);
```

- If the file does not already exist, `creat` creates it with the permissions specified by the perms argument.
- In UNIX file system, nine bits of permission are associated with a file to control read, write and execute access for the owner of the file.
  - Thus a three-digit octal number is convenient for specifying the permissions.

The function `unlink(char *name)` removes the file name from the file system. It
corresponds to the standard library function `remove`.

# Random Access - lseek

The system call lseek provides a way to move around in a file without reading or writing any data:

```c
long lseek(int fd, long offset, int origin);
```

sets the current position in the file whose descriptor is `fd` to `offset`, which is taken relative to the location specified by origin.

`origin`:
	0 - beginning of file
	1 - from current position
	2 - end of the file

With lseek, it is possible to treat files more or less like arrays, at the *price of slower access*.